## 9.2 任务通知特性

9.2.1 ## 优势与限制

- Send an event or data to a task is **faster** than through communication objects.
- Using less RAM than using a queue, semaphore, or event group.
- Task notifications **cannot** be used to send events or data **from a task to an ISR**.
- Communication objects can be accessed by **any task or ISR** that **knows its handle**. Task notifications **can only** be processed by the **task** to which the notification **is sent**.


## 9.3 通知状态和通知值

每个任务都有一个结构体: TCB（Task Control Block），有两个成员。

- uint8_t ，表示通知状态
- uint32_t ，表示通知值

```c
typedef strcut tskTaskControlBlock{
	/* */
	volatile uint32_t ulNotifiedValue[configTask_NOTIFICATION_ARRAY_ENTRIES];
	volatile uint8_t ucNotifyState[config_NOTIFICATION_ARRAY_ENTRIES];
	...
} tskTCB;

```

## 9.4 Using Task Notifications

Task notifications can be used to in place of a binary semaphore, a counting semaphore, an event group...

Using the `xTaskNotify()` function to send a task notficiation, and `xTaskNotifyWait()`  to receive a task notfiication.

In majority cases, the `xTaskNotify()` and `xTaskNotifyWait()` is not required, and simpler functions `xTaskNotifyGive()` and `ulTaskNotifyTake()` can be alternative for them.

### 9.4.1 xTaskNotifyGive API function

`xTaskNotifyGive()` sends a notification directly to a task, and increments the receiving task's notification value.

`xTaskNotifyGive()` function is **lighter weight** and **faster** alternative to a **binary or counting semaphore**.

```c
BaseType_t xTaskNotifyGive( TaskHandle_t xTaskToNotify );
```

- `xTaskToNotify` ，The handle of the task to which the notifications is being sent.
- return value ，pdPASS is the only possible return value.

